== Install requirements via MacPorts ==

First you need to install [http://www.macports.org/install.php MacPorts].

Afterwards you need to install the following packages:
* py25-gtk
* py25-gtkglext
* py25-opengl (at least v3.0.1b2)
* py25-psyco (optional)
* py25-ode (optional)
Simply run the following to install all dependencies:
 sudo port install py25-gtk py25-gtkglext py25-opengl py25-psyco py25-ode

== Run PyCAM ==
* extract the [http://pycam.sourceforge.net/download.html PyCAM archive]
* run ''/opt/local/bin/python2.5 pycam'' from within PyCAM's directory
** the above line refers to MacPorts' Python interpreter (instead of MacOS' native Python) - otherwise it will not find OpenGL and the other required modules


== Problems? Solutions! ==

Below you will find a list of potential problems reported by PyCAM users.

If these workarounds do not help: please ask a question in the [http://sourceforge.net/projects/pycam/forums/forum/860184 ''Help'' forum] and provide the following relevant information about your setup.

Get the list of installed python-related packages:
 port installed | grep py

Get Python's output for every interesting ''import'' statement:
 foo@bar:~$ /opt/local/bin/python2.5
 Python 2.5.5 (r255:77872, Nov 28 2010, 19:00:19) 
 [GCC 4.4.5] on linux2
 Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
 >>> import gtk.gtkgl
 >>> import OpenGL.GL as GL
 >>> import OpenGL.GLU as GLU
 >>> import OpenGL.GLUT as GLUT
(the above output of a successful test was taken on Linux - your installed versions may differ slightly)

=== OpenGL (python-gtkglext1) missing ===
Some users reported the following warning from PyCAM, even though they installed all required packages:
 <tt>Please install 'python-gtkglext1'</tt>

Since none of the PyCAM developers is a Mac OS user, it is not easy for us to track down this issue. Currently it looks like a problem of [https://trac.macports.org/ticket/26186 Python 2.5 and ''ctypes''] on Mac OS X. Please try the following steps to fix it:

# install the libffi package: <tt>port install libffi</tt>
# rebuild Python: <tt>port -v upgrade --force python25</tt>
(suggested on [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4535725/ctypes-import-not-working-on-python-2-5/4536064#4536064 stackoverflow])

Alternatively you could try to update Python to v2.6 and install the corresponding packages for GTK, OpenGL and so on.

Please report back, if one of the above suggestions fixes the problem for you - thanks!

=== OpenGL is too old ===
According to a [http://sourceforge.net/projects/pycam/forums/forum/860183/topic/3800091 forum post from lilalinux] you need at least OpenGL v3.0.1b2. Otherwise you will probably get a blank 3D visualization window.