= System requirements for PyCAM =
PyCAM currently runs on Windows, Unix/Linux and MacOS ([http://sourceforge.net/projects/pycam/forums/forum/860183/topic/3800091 via MacPorts]).

Please document your experiences here, if you successfully used PyCAM with other operating systems.

== Linux ==
Install the following packages with your package manager (see below):
* '''python'''
* '''python-gtk2'''
* '''python-opengl''' (at least v3.0.1)
* '''python-gtkglext1''' (for OpenSuSE: ''python-gtkglext'')
* '''python-rsvg'''
* '''python-guppy''' (optional; required by the ''Memory Analyzer'' plugin - only useful for development)
* '''python-pyode''' (optional; use at least v1.2.0-4; probably you do not need it)
* '''python-psyco''' - this optional dependency is not available in recent distributions - just ignore it (''PyCAM'' until v0.5.1 issues a negligible warning)

=== Debian ===
Run the following command in a ''root'' terminal:

 apt-get install python-gtk2 python-opengl python-gtkglext1 python-rsvg python-pyode python-guppy

Please note, that the outdated Debian ''Lenny'' contains broken ''python-opengl'' and ''python-pyode'' packages. You need to temporarily add the ''Squeeze'' repository during the installation of these two packages.

=== Ubuntu ===
Enable the ''universe'' repository. See detailed instructions [http://help.ubuntu.com/community/Repositories/Ubuntu here].

 sudo apt-get install python-gtk2 python-opengl python-gtkglext1 python-rsvg python-pyode python-guppy

Please note, that Ubuntu ''Jaunty'' (maybe also ''Dapper/Hardy/Intrepid'') contains broken ''python-opengl'' and ''python-pyode'' packages. You need to temporarily add the ''Karmic'' repository during the installation of these two packages.

=== OpenSuSE ===
Run the following command in a ''root'' terminal:

 zypper install python-gtk2 python-gtkglext python-opengl python-rsvg python-guppy

=== Fedora ===
Run the following command in a ''root'' terminal:

 yum install pygtk2 pygtkglext python-opengl gnome-python2-rsvg python-guppy

== Windows ==
Alternatives:
* Use the [http://pycam.sf.net/downloads.html standalone executable for Windows]. It does not require any additional software.
* Use the package installer, but make sure that you installed the dependency installer before. Both are available for [http://pycam.sf.net/downloads.html download].

== MacOS ==

Please take a look at [[Installation MacOS]] for the details of installing PyCAM's requirements via [http://www.macports.org/ MacPorts].

= Optional external programs =
Some features of PyCAM require additional external programs.

== SVG/PS/EPS import ==
PyCAM supports only STL and DXF files natively. Thus you need to install external programs for conversions of other file formats.

=== Debian/Ubuntu ===
<pre>apt-get install inkscape pstoedit</pre>

=== OpenSuSE ===
<pre>zypper install inkscape pstoedit</pre>

=== Fedora ===
<pre>yum install inkscape pstoedit</pre>

=== Windows ===
Download and install the following programs:
;inkscape: http://inkscape.org
;pstoedit: http://www.pstoedit.net/pstoedit
;ghostscript: http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~ghost/

''Hint: there is no need to install GraphicMagick - even though pstoedit suggests it.''